README.md, before:

# Cross

A tiny and strong framework for deno web application.

## Get started

```ts
import { Cross } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";
```

### Shortcut mode

```ts
import { Cross, get, post } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

new Cross(
  get("/:user", (ctx) => {
    return ctx.params;
  }),
  post("/:user", (ctx) => {
    return ctx.params;
  }),
).listen();
```

Note that features such as plugins, middlewares,template engine and unified
error handling cannot be used in shortcut mode, you must solve them in other
ways.

### Decorator mode

If no route is set in the startup arguments, the framework will automatically
switch to decorator mode. The only difference in performance between the
shortcut mode and the decorator mode is that the latter needs to scan and load
all decorators at startup, it is almost the same in runtime.

```ts
// index.ts
import { Cross } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

new Cross().listen();
```

#### 1. Controller

```ts
// controller.ts
import { Context, Controller, Get } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Controller("/prefix")
export class MyController {
  @Get("/:user")
  user(ctx: Context) {
    return ctx.params;
  }
}
```

#### 2. Middleware

You can add middleware decorator on any class method, including controllers. The
role of the middleware parameter is to set the execution priority.

```ts
// middleware.ts
import { Context, Middleware } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

export class MyMiddleware {
  @Middleware(2)
  cors(ctx: Context) {
    // todo something second
  }
  @Middleware(1)
  auth(ctx: Context) {
    // todo something first
  }
}
```

#### 3. Plugin

Plugin decorators can only be added to classes, and the parameter is the name
bound to the context.

```ts
// plugin.ts
import { Plugin } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Plugin("redis")
export class Redis {
  constructor() {
    // connect to redis server and create a client
  }
  get(key) {
    // todo something
  }
  set(key, value) {
    // todo something
  }
}
```

Then you can use redis object as singleton instance in any controllers with
`ctx.redis`.

#### 4. Engine

Define one and only one engine decorator that can render templates file with
specific data. The custom engine must inherit the base engine and override its
methods

```ts
// custom_engine.ts
import { BaseEngine, Engine } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Engine()
export class MyEngine extends BaseEngine {
  // Override (required)
  view(tmplFile, data) {
    // return html string
  }
  // Override (optional)
  render(tmplText, data) {
    // return html string
  }
}
```

#### 5. Template

Template decorator is used to decorate controller handlers, the parameters is
template file path. If no engine is defined, the built-in engine will be used
for rendering automatically, The built-in engine is based on the typescript
version of doT. For usage see: https://olado.github.io/doT/index.html

```ts
// controller.ts
import {
  Context,
  Controller,
  Get,
  Template,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Controller("/prefix")
export class MyController {
  @Get("/:user")
  @Template("index.tmpl")
  user(ctx: Context) {
    return ctx.params;
  }
}
```

#### 6. JSX

```ts
// controller.ts
/** @jsx h */
import { Context, Controller, Get, h } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

const Homepage = ({ props }: any) => (
  <div>
    <h1 style="color:blue">Hello, {props.name}</h1>
  </div>
);

@Controller()
export class JsxController {
  @Get("/jsx")
  jsx(ctx: Context) {
    const data = { name: "jsx" };
    return <Homepage props={data} />;
  }
}
```

#### 6. ErrorHandlder

If an error handler decorator is defined, all errors within the framework will
be handled by it. Like middleware, you can define it in any class method but
only once. This decorator has no parameters.

```ts
// error.ts
import { Context, ErrorHandler } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

export class AnyClass {
  @ErrorHandler
  error(ctx: Context) {
    console.log(ctx.error);
  }
}
```

## API Reference

### Constructor

To start the web service, you simply new an instance with `new Cross()`. The
instance has two public methods as follow:

- `assets(dir[, maxAge])` "dir" is the relative path of static resources
  directory. The "maxAge" directive states the maximum amount of time in seconds
  that fetched responses are allowed to be used again.
- `listen(port)` HTTP server listening port, default 3000.

### Shortcuts

The shortcut methods including
`all`,`get`,`post`,`put`,`del`,`patch`,`head`,`opt`, and all methods have the
same parameters.

- `path` Route path based on radix tree.
- `callback` Request handle function.

### Decorators

| name           | type            | parameters | parameter description              |
| -------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------- |
| @Controller    | ClassDecorator  | string     | Prefix for request route           |
| @Plugin        | ClassDecorator  | string     | Plugin name with context           |
| @Engine        | ClassDecorator  | string     | Render method name in engine class |
| @All           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Get           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Post          | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Put           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Delete        | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Patch         | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Head          | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Options       | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Template      | MethodDecorator | string     | Template file path                 |
| @Middleware    | MethodDecorator | number     | Middleware execution priority      |
| @ErrorHandlder | MethodDecorator | undefined  |                                    |

### Context

Context is an instance passed to controllers, middlewares and error handler, it
contains properties and methods related to requests and responses.

#### Request Properties

- `ctx.params` The parameters with route path
- `ctx.query` The parameters with query string
- `ctx.url` ex. https://example.com:3000/users?page=1
- `ctx.origin` ex. https://example.com:3000
- `ctx.protocol` ex. https:
- `ctx.host` ex. example.com:3000
- `ctx.hostname` ex. example.com
- `ctx.port` ex. 3000
- `ctx.path` ex. /users
- `ctx.method` Standard http request methods
- `ctx.headers` Refer to https://deno.com/deploy/docs/runtime-headers
- `ctx.cookies` Including one method to get request cookie:
  `ctx.cookies.get(name)`
- `ctx.body` Including five parsing methods: `text()`, `json()`, `form()`,
  `blob()`, `buffer()`.
- `ctx.request` Native request instance.

#### Response Properties

- `ctx.status`
- `ctx.status=`
- `ctx.statusText`
- `ctx.statusText=`
- `ctx.cookies` Including two methods to operate response cookie:
  `set(name, value)`,`delete(name)`

#### Response Methods

- `ctx.has(name)`
- `ctx.get(name)`
- `ctx.set(name, value)`
- `ctx.append(name, value)`
- `ctx.delete(name)`
- `ctx.redirect(url[, status])`

#### Others

- `ctx.view(tmplPath, data)`
- `ctx.render(tmplText, data)`
- `ctx.renderJsx(node)` You can return node directly, which will be rendered by
  the framework.
- `ctx.error`
- `ctx.throw(message[, status])`

#### Return types

- `BodyInit`: Blob, BufferSource, FormData, ReadableStream, URLSearchParams, or
  USVString
- `Response`: Native response instance.

## Examples

See https://github.com/seatwork/deno-cross/tree/master/examples

Commit message:

Load the decorator class manually instead

README.md, after:

# Cross

A tiny and strong framework for deno web application.

## Get started

```ts
import { Cross } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";
```

### Shortcut mode

```ts
import { Cross, get, post } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

new Cross(
  get("/:user", (ctx) => {
    return ctx.params;
  }),
  post("/:user", (ctx) => {
    return ctx.params;
  }),
).listen();
```

Note that features such as plugins, middlewares,template engine and unified
error handling cannot be used in shortcut mode, you must solve them in other
ways.

### Decorator mode

Importing a ts/tsx file containing any decorators to use its features. Shortcut
mode and decorator mode do not conflict and can be used together. The only
difference in performance between the two is that the latter needs to parse all
decorators at startup, it is almost the same in runtime.

```ts
// index.ts
import { Cross } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";
import "./controllers/MyController.ts"; // Don't forget to import

new Cross().listen();
```

#### 1. Controller

```ts
// controller.ts
import { Context, Controller, Get } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Controller("/prefix")
export class MyController {
  @Get("/:user")
  user(ctx: Context) {
    return ctx.params;
  }
}
```

#### 2. Middleware

You can add middleware decorator on any class method, including controllers. The
role of the middleware parameter is to set the execution priority.

```ts
// middleware.ts
import { Context, Middleware } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

export class MyMiddleware {
  @Middleware(2)
  cors(ctx: Context) {
    // todo something second
  }
  @Middleware(1)
  auth(ctx: Context) {
    // todo something first
  }
}
```

#### 3. Plugin

Plugin decorators can only be added to classes, and the parameter is the name
bound to the context.

```ts
// plugin.ts
import { Plugin } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Plugin("redis")
export class Redis {
  constructor() {
    // connect to redis server and create a client
  }
  get(key) {
    // todo something
  }
  set(key, value) {
    // todo something
  }
}
```

Then you can use redis object as singleton instance in any controllers with
`ctx.redis`.

#### 4. Engine

Define one and only one engine decorator that can render templates file with
specific data. The custom engine must inherit the base engine and override its
methods

```ts
// custom_engine.ts
import { BaseEngine, Engine } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Engine()
export class MyEngine extends BaseEngine {
  // Override (required)
  view(tmplFile, data) {
    // return html string
  }
  // Override (optional)
  render(tmplText, data) {
    // return html string
  }
}
```

#### 5. Template

Template decorator is used to decorate controller handlers, the parameters is
template file path. If no engine is defined, the built-in engine will be used
for rendering automatically, The built-in engine is based on the typescript
version of doT. For usage see: https://olado.github.io/doT/index.html

```ts
// controller.ts
import {
  Context,
  Controller,
  Get,
  Template,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

@Controller("/prefix")
export class MyController {
  @Get("/:user")
  @Template("index.tmpl")
  user(ctx: Context) {
    return ctx.params;
  }
}
```

#### 6. JSX

```ts
// controller.ts
/** @jsx h */
import { Context, Controller, Get, h } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

const Homepage = ({ props }: any) => (
  <div>
    <h1 style="color:blue">Hello, {props.name}</h1>
  </div>
);

@Controller()
export class JsxController {
  @Get("/jsx")
  jsx(ctx: Context) {
    const data = { name: "jsx" };
    return <Homepage props={data} />;
  }
}
```

#### 6. ErrorHandlder

If an error handler decorator is defined, all errors within the framework will
be handled by it. Like middleware, you can define it in any class method but
only once. This decorator has no parameters.

```ts
// error.ts
import { Context, ErrorHandler } from "https://deno.land/x/cross/mod.ts";

export class AnyClass {
  @ErrorHandler
  error(ctx: Context) {
    console.log(ctx.error);
  }
}
```

## API Reference

### Constructor

To start the web service, you simply new an instance with
`new Cross(...routes:Route[])`. The instance has two public methods as follow:

- `static(dir[, maxAge])` "dir" is the relative path of static resources
  directory. The "maxAge" directive states the maximum amount of time in seconds
  that fetched responses are allowed to be used again.
- `listen(port)` HTTP server listening port, default 3000.

### Shortcuts

The shortcut methods including
`all`,`get`,`post`,`put`,`del`,`patch`,`head`,`opt`, and all methods have the
same parameters.

- `path` Route path based on radix tree.
- `callback` Request handle function.

### Decorators

| name           | type            | parameters | parameter description              |
| -------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------- |
| @Controller    | ClassDecorator  | string     | Prefix for request route           |
| @Plugin        | ClassDecorator  | string     | Plugin name with context           |
| @Engine        | ClassDecorator  | string     | Render method name in engine class |
| @All           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Get           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Post          | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Put           | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Delete        | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Patch         | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Head          | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Options       | MethodDecorator | string     | Route path                         |
| @Template      | MethodDecorator | string     | Template file path                 |
| @Middleware    | MethodDecorator | number     | Middleware execution priority      |
| @ErrorHandlder | MethodDecorator | undefined  |                                    |

### Context

Context is an instance passed to controllers, middlewares and error handler, it
contains properties and methods related to requests and responses.

#### Request Properties

- `ctx.params` The parameters with route path
- `ctx.query` The parameters with query string
- `ctx.url` ex. https://example.com:3000/users?page=1
- `ctx.origin` ex. https://example.com:3000
- `ctx.protocol` ex. https:
- `ctx.host` ex. example.com:3000
- `ctx.hostname` ex. example.com
- `ctx.port` ex. 3000
- `ctx.path` ex. /users
- `ctx.method` Standard http request methods
- `ctx.headers` Refer to https://deno.com/deploy/docs/runtime-headers
- `ctx.cookies` Including one method to get request cookie:
  `ctx.cookies.get(name)`
- `ctx.body` Including five parsing methods: `text()`, `json()`, `form()`,
  `blob()`, `buffer()`.
- `ctx.request` Native request instance.

#### Response Properties

- `ctx.status`
- `ctx.status=`
- `ctx.statusText`
- `ctx.statusText=`
- `ctx.cookies` Including two methods to operate response cookie:
  `set(name, value)`,`delete(name)`

#### Response Methods

- `ctx.has(name)`
- `ctx.get(name)`
- `ctx.set(name, value)`
- `ctx.append(name, value)`
- `ctx.delete(name)`
- `ctx.redirect(url[, status])`

#### Others

- `ctx.view(tmplPath, data)` You can return string directly,which will be
  rendered by the @Template decorator.
- `ctx.render(tmplText, data)` Usually not needed
- `ctx.renderJsx(node)` You can return node directly, which will be rendered by
  the framework.
- `ctx.error`
- `ctx.throw(message[, status])`

#### Return types

- `BodyInit`: Blob, BufferSource, FormData, ReadableStream, URLSearchParams, or
  USVString
- `Response`: Native response instance.

## Examples

See https://github.com/seatwork/deno-cross/tree/master/examples
